Let me ask a bit of a human question. Hmm.
Charles Hoskinson someone you've worked with in the early days of
Ethereum,
there appears to my outsider view to have been a bit of a falling out.
Is there positive,
inspiring human story to be told about why two part of ways?
I kind of wants to let the various books about Ethereum speak for themselves.
Um, but you know, I feel like, you know,
since that time, I think, uh, you know, Charles has, uh, clearly
progressed into matured in a lot is,
and people who follow Charles closely have definitely told me that, you know,
like 20,
21 Charles is very different from my 2014 Charles and I'm sure 2021 Vitalic is
much, uh, different from 2014 Vitalic as well.
I'm kind of interested how the 20,
30 and 2040 Vitalic in Charles look like as well.
Oh, interesting. <laugh>.
The progression of the humans.
Is this going to be one of those things where like everyone comes full circle
and then 20, 30 vial and Charles are best friends? Yeah. Um, I mean.
Not necessarily best friends, but some kind of, uh, um,
mm-hmm <affirmative> are able to reminisce in ways that is, um,
mm-hmm <affirmative> that puts some of the tension of the past behind, I.
Think such things are possible. I, um, think, uh, you know,
people definitely absolutely have a right to, and, uh,
I think should strive to this constantly change and reinvent themselves. Um.
Is there something you could say about your thoughts about the Cardon project
that, uh, Charles Hoskinson leads they've um, they've,
they've worked on some interesting ideas. Mm-hmm <affirmative> that, um,
mirror some of the ideas in Ethereum mm-hmm <affirmative> proof of stake, uh,
working on, um, uh, smart contracts and all those kinds of things. Is,
is there something, again, uh, positive, inspiring that you could say,
are they a competitor? Is it a complimentary technology?
It's, uh, there's definitely interesting ideas in there. I mean,
I do think Cardon takes a bit of a different approach to, than Ethereum in that,
you know, they really emphasize having these big academic proofs for everything.
Um, whereas Ethereum tends to be more okay with heuristic arguments and in part,
because it's just trying to do more faster. Um, but you know,
there's definitely theory and interesting things that come out of, um, you know,
I H K research. And so is there.
Can you comment on that kind of idea, I, as sort of, uh,
having a foot in research enjoy,
Charles's kind of emphasis on papers and like deep academic rigor,
is there,
what's the role of deep research rigor in the world of the currency?
Interesting. I'm actually the sort of person who thinks deep rigor is overrated.
Um, the reason why I think deep rigor is overrated is because I think like the,
the, in terms of like, why protocols fail.
I think the number of failures or that are outside the model is even more
important is like bigger and more important than the failures that are inside
the model. Right? So like if you take selfish mining, for example, like the,
that original discovery from 2013 that showed how, um,
Bitcoin does, like, even if it has a 50% of fault tolerance,
assuming everyone's honest, it only has a yeah. You know,
zero to 33% fault tolerance, depending on your network model, if you assume, uh,
rational actors. And like, to me, that was an,
that was a great example of like an outside the model failure, right.
Because traditional consensus research just up until or before the, uh,
blockchain days did not think about like incentivization much, right?
Like there was a little bit of thought about incentivization.
There's like a couple of papers on the visit and Altru rational model,
but it wasn't that deep, it was mostly operating under the assumption that,
you know, this we're gonna make consensus between 15 and or disciplines,
and these are institutions and if something goes wrong, then, you know,
if it was, we can figure out whether or not it was deliberate, offline,
and if they did something evil, we can Sue them. Whereas, you know,
in the crypto world, you can't do that. Right.
And so like that whole discovery basically arose just because like, you know,
the model of, uh, traditional, uh, consensus research,
just like didn't cover the responsibilities. And then of like,
once you go out of the model, those like other issues do exist. Right. Um, so,
but then at the same time, like there definitely are, um,
protocols that turn out to be ins that do have failures inside the model.
Like this reminds me of, uh, the time when, uh, I, like I found a yeah.
Bug in a proposed, uh, consensus implementation from, uh,
either shares or EOS, this happened around the end of 2017. Um,
so that was definitely inside the model because like they had a very clear idea
of what they were trying to achieve. They had a very clear description and like,
there's a very clear mathematical, um,
argument for why the description doesn't lead to what they're trying to achieve.
But like ultimately what you're trying to achieve can never be fully math
described in formal language. Right? Like I, this is the big discovery of, um,
you know, the AI safety people, for example, right. Like just having a,
a specification of what you want is an insanely hard problem.
And like the more powerful,
the optimizer that you're giving the instructions to,
the more you have to be careful. Uh, and so, you know,
I think there are kind of these two sides.
And then the other thing is that a lot,
like a lot of the academic approach ends up like basically optimizing for other
people inside of the academic system. Right. And it doesn't really optimize for,
or like curious outsiders.
Whereas like I personally met like totally optimized for curious outsiders,
or at least I, I feel like I strive to. So I guess, like,
that's my case for why I, uh,
like tends to behave in ways that, you know,
occasionally traditional academic types, criticizes being reckless. Um,
but I mean, on the other hand, you know, there's, I mean,
there's definitely real benefits that come from,
like just taking a, a rigorous approach,
especially when, you know, you know, what, the thing that, like, you know,
what the specification is of what you're trying to get. And like,
you're trying to kind of improve your way or provide protocols that actually
provide that. And like, you know exactly what you're looking for.
I feel like realistically,
you probably wants to do both kinds of analysis and like sometimes even wanna do
both kinds of analysis and stages, right? Like you have,
you want to do more quick and dirty things and even watch public feedback on the
quick and dirty stuff.
And then later on you formalize it more and then you get more feedback. Um,
like in general,
I guess I feel like the norms of a research in the future.
Like there, it, the internet has just changed so much.
There's no way that it's not going. Uh, and you know, it's, it's even,
she changed like collaboration structures and like the patterns in which we work
with each other.
There's no way that the correct structure for collaborative research is
the same as what it was 15 years ago.
But like what combination of these existing components and of new
ideas, it is like, that's something that's, you know,
totally legitimates that kind of fight it out.
And I think it's great that there's, uh,
different ecosystems that have different attitudes to things. Like, I think,
you know, there's a big possibility that, you know, things that the Ethereum,
uh, ways that the Ethereum ecosystem approaches some problems is totally wrong.
And if there's other ecosystems or different principles, then they can do well.
That's something that we can learn from.